so Huey first of all you're hearing is
not good right I mean right right now
you you can hear me okay right yeah kind
of explain why you're not singing
tonight well I have a I have I was
diagnosed a thing called Meniere's
disease that they don't know a lot about
maybe 33 years ago I lost my right ear
lost al between like 20% left lost 80%
of my right ear and then two years ago
my left ear went out and now although it
fluctuates from you know sort of mildly
bad to horrible
and once mildly bad I'm okay I wear your
hearing aids and I might could sing
again but I don't know that yet I
haven't been able to stabilize long
enough so that's the object so for many
years you were singing with only a
hearing in only one ear yeah yeah which
I guess there's no problem huh
no problem when I first lost my right
ear I went to this ENT guy who was a
well respected ent guy and he said he's
they'll get used to it I said what do
you mean get used to it he's a musician
I need he says hey Brian Wilson had one
ear Jimi Hendrix had one ear he said I
have one ear and I'm in a barbershop
quartet yeah he had one here you went to
an ear doctor that only has one ear yeah
I think I figured out the problem
you ever seen the dentist teeth you're
right you're actually right on that so
okay so you're dealing with this right
and you've recorded this album you these
are songs that you recorded before you
had the problem with your ear yep and
you've been working on this for quite
some time exactly and and then this is
the new album have your fellow musicians
reached out to you I don't know people
know about this yeah who has reached out
to you that made some that shared
something with you that stuck with you
stuck with you
sorry I'm well a lot lots of people lots
of Philippines isn't everything but one
one Tico Torres who's a buddy of mine
from Bon Jovi from Bon Jovi drummer for
Bon Jovi we became pals we've been pals
for a while now and when my hearing went
out I hadn't seen him for a couple
months and you know tickles from New
Jersey so he says he sees me runs if he
goes hah hey how you doing
I said not great Tico I can't hear you
know my I can't play music yet because I
can't hear pitch it's really terrible
and he goes what are you gonna do so
that's that's my mantra now last night I
interviewed you for an hour at the
Grammy Museum here in LA and every time
we talk and we talk a lot and I feel
like people think of you as the hip to
be square guy and I feel like people
don't really know you at all you told me
a story about and I'll just kind of get
into it you were just out of high school
your dad told you don't go to college
instead of hitchhike through Europe he
gave you no money to do that
you stowed away on a plane to get to
Europe and then you got to Europe you
wind up in North Africa correct yep and
what happens in North Africa well I
played harmonica in the square in
Merrick I went to Marrakesh Casablanca
in America and I played in the square
and I made like with a hat
you know I busks with played harmonica
right next to the snake charmer and the
mmm and the bicyclist the Acrobat and
I'd make like three Durham's
and my youth hostel was wandering and
all I could eat was a half a Durham so
Jesus I can't of enjoyed it and iced I
went there for a week or so
we got stoned right
it was kind of hard to leave actually
how long did you wind up staying three
months three months but then when I left
actually it was a funnier story
hitchhiking gonna go up through Portugal
through Spain I'm in Spain now and I'm
hitchhiking and here on the horizon
comes the 1925 Chevrolet pulling an
Airstream trailer what year is this
this is 1968 okay so this car is old
cars old van yeah yeah yeah and so now
and the guy stops and it's an old
Dutchman I'll never forget him Jimmy
vandura was his name he had a big
handlebar mustache and he picks me up
and well he said where you going up some
trying to get to Portugal he said no
problem that's where I'm going
we started driving he liked to drink a
little bit so we'd stop it ever he's
kind of stopped at every bar on the way
mm-hmm
we about 10 o'clock at night we're on
this levee and there's water everywhere
and his suddenly he drives off the levee
and in the water foot water's up to the
floorboards like that oh my gosh well he
gets out grabs the fire extinguisher and
sprays the distributor which I didn't
know I guess drives everything out and
cuz you never have drunkenly driven into
a levee before it's a sort of thing you
learn so now he's traded and he drives
straight out but when we get to and he
drives straight out and we're fine we
get to the border of Portugal about
11:30 at night and I can't find my
passport because it's floated out from
the Airstream trailer out of my knapsack
in the sideboard of the Airstream so I
don't have a passport can't go to
Portugal have to go back to Seville they
leave without you these guys
yeah they leave without me great well
now I hitchhiked first of all I spent
the night that night I found a little
rock band that were that night sat in
with him and Chuck showed him a couple
tunes we had a little jam they let me
sleep on the floor next day I hit check
the Seville on Friday I remember was a
Friday because like finally get to the
embassy which is hard to get to be a
check and wise but I get out there and
they shut the door in my face basically
is about
five o'clock in the evening they said do
you have 20 bucks I said no it will come
back Monday with 20 bucks boom so I go
into Seville I sit with a nice watchman
I mean I'm a night watchman there in a
construction site really a great guy and
he I asked him I said can I sleep right
you know I don't speak any English
he doesn't speak any Spanish but we had
this wait oh you speak English but we
have this great conversation we kind of
understood each other and he taught me
how to say you're soy estudiante quiero
Paradiso fest for today and and trabajo
and and how to get work and all this
stuff and taught me how to say that so
the next day I'm busking again and and
these kids come by these college kids
and oh my gosh they're taking with me
and they talked to me they can speak
English and we talked and they want to
know all about San Francisco because
it's 1968 six San Francisco has exploded
and I know all about it of course I tell
them about and these still my problem I
got to get a passport so they said well
what are we gonna do we'll throw you a
concert that's great so we auditioned
for a guitar player
we found this kid from Australia named
Michael who lived in the outback but he
had one record of Sonny Terry brownie
McGhee record and was a kind of a blues
record and I knew a bunch of those songs
so he would shed it for a few days and
these kids put up these amazing posters
they were super artistic these kids all
over town
Huey lost blues with con Huey Louis
Blues come Huey everywhere well now we
have this concert in on the college
campus and oh my gosh it's sold out how
many people probably 1,200 or below 100
people show up sold out and and the
first band we have an opening act
they're called nuevos tempos the new
times and they're tremendous they're
like a ten-piece horn band the
choreographed wardrobe they're
unbelievably great I'm thinking oh my
god we are gonna die or you know and so
our little stage there was a big stage
and our little stage went right out in
the front there was a little pod that
you go out and we had two chairs and two
microphones he's got a Cousteau guitar
and I got my harmonicas and I'm singing
so we go out and and they announce us we
go out there's applause nice applause
kind of polite applause and then
pin-drop quiet we start the first song
that it I'm playing a lot of it and you
can hear a pin drop it is so quiet and
I'm thinking to myself as I'm playing
the song oh my god we are bombing we are
so bombing and I finished the song and
the place erupts in tumultuous applause
I want to show you something real quick
this is a clip we found
[Music]
[Applause]
[Laughter]
still part of the news Huey Lewis and
the news weather is out now with me
magic Sam hi I'm Jimmy Kimmel if you
want to see all our latest videos click
the subscribe button and if you don't
click anyway and close your eyes when
they come on